# Digital Techniques for Urban Design (DTEQ)

* Columbia University | GSAPP | Urban Design | A5428 | Summer 2016
* Tuesdays | 4-6 PM | Avery 114
* Professors Phu Duong, Elizabeth Barry, Kyle Hovenkotter, Michael Szivos
* Teaching Assistant Zhou Wu

This course introduces contemporary techniques for urban design representation that bring meaning to questions which underlie the nature of how urban designers think, work, and communicate. In conjunction with the UD studio, the primary objective of this class is to provide an entry point into digital software that explores innovative approaches for urban design. Critical discussions surrounding design methodologies begin the initial semester that requires a quick ramp-up of individual digital skills. Therefore, workshops are scheduled early in the term to immerse students into a culture of thinking and making “things” as part of an urban designer’s robust creative process. Students learn geographic information systems, 3d modeling, and video making programs while gaining experience with efficient cross-platform workflows with collaboration in mind. This class accommodates individuals with low to advanced digital skills.

By combining conventions of different representational techniques, students are offered opportunities to discover the value of spatial data exploration and analysis; descriptive and generative 3d modeling (Rhino, Grasshopper); and multimedia storytelling with motion graphics compiled as video (AfterEffects) into new constructs for envisioning urban spaces. The instruction and use of these multiple formats broaden possibilities for idea development and articulation, while supporting a nonlinear process that requires refinement and concise decision making process. By virtue of provocation, content-rich techniques enables students to grapple with the navigation of their individual agency across collaborative settings broaden reach. 

The course is structured through a series of exercises motivated by select viewing of students’ work of: mappings, diagrams, drawings and video. Lessons are delivered in a classroom setting and supported by lab working sessions. Individual skills developed in this course are expected to be furthered in the design studio across all semesters of the program. Urban design students are encouraged to move beyond this introduction to software by exploring other GSAPP offerings in the Visual Studies electives to strengthen their skillsets in the following semesters.
